# Bocoup Code of Conduct

## Quick Version

Bocoup is dedicated to providing a safe and harassment-free work experience for
everyone, regardless of gender identity and expression, sexual orientation,
disability status, mental health, neurotype, age, physical appearance, body
type, race, ethnicity, nationality, language, religion, or class. We do not
tolerate harassment or discrimination in any form and we are committed to
partnering with you to foster a healthy working environment.

## Full Version

Bocoup prioritizes the safety and wellbeing of marginalized people who are
underrepresented in the communities that we serve, or are oppressed by
structural sexism, racism, classism, ableism, homophobia, xenophobia, and
transphobia. This includes but is not limited to: women, people of color,
people with disabilities, people with prior military service, formerly
incarcerated people, people who identify as LGBTQIA+, indigenous peoples, first
and second generation immigrants, and people from low-income families.

By working for Bocoup as an employee or vendor, working with Bocoup on a
commercial or noncommercial project or collaboration, visiting a facility
managed by Bocoup as a guest, or attending an event hosted by Bocoup as a
delegate, speaker, sponsor, volunteer, or attendee, you agree to abide by this
code of conduct and cooperate with the Bocoup staff who enforce it.

### Expected Behavior

Individuals are expected to behave appropriately and professionally during
their participation in all projects, collaborations or events. In particular,
all individuals should actively avoid intentionally or unintentionally
participating in the harassment of individuals. Harassment includes offensive
comments related to gender, sexual orientation, disability, mental health,
neurotype, age, physical appearance, body, race, ethnicity, nationality or
religion; deliberate or repeated misgendering; sexual images in public spaces;
intimidation; stalking; following; harassing photography or recording;
sustained disruption in meetings, lectures or other spaces; physical contact
and simulated physical contact (e.g. emoji or textual descriptions) without
consent; and unwelcome sexual attention. Consent must be freely given,
enthusiastic, informed, specific, and reversible affirmation of a request.

If you are taking a photograph or video in the course of working at Bocoup,
with Bocoup, or participating in a Bocoup event, you must request consent from
the subject of your documentation. If you do not receive consent, you may not
take a picture or record video. If a person requests that an image of
themselves captured during the course of your work at Bocoup or in attendance
of a Bocoup event be unpublished and/or deleted at any time and for any reason,
you must immediately comply. Refusing to do so is considered unacceptable
behavior and is a breach of the Code of Conduct.

Individuals are expected to demonstrate kindness and care when communicating
with one another. In recognizing the importance of diverse perspectives and
expertise, Bocoup expects individuals to listen actively, and to interact with
respect and humility.

### Consequences of Unacceptable Behavior

Bocoup in the course of enforcing this Code of Conduct may, at its own
discretion, ask an individual to stop some behavior, warn the individual of
their violation, or further sanction the individual. If the unacceptable
behavior is displayed by a customer of Bocoup, consequences may include
escalating to customer leadership. If the unacceptable behavior is displayed in
a Bocoup facility consequences may include expulsion from the facility. If
during participation in an event hosted by Bocoup, consequences may include
expulsion from the event with no refund (including no return of sponsorship
contributions). If the unacceptable behavior is online, consequences may
include expulsion from the forum. Individuals are expected to comply
immediately with such requests from Bocoup.

### Reporting Unacceptable Behavior

Bocoup prioritizes emotional, psychological, and physical safety. If you feel
unsafe in any way during a meeting or event hosted by Bocoup, you are welcome
to (1) request an end to the meeting or event, or (2) exit the room or premises
with or without explanation. You will not be penalized for your departure, or
expected to explain. If you would like to report a violation of this Code of
Conduct, please contact (1) Sheila Moussavi at sheila@bocoup.com if you would
like to keep the matter confidential, or (2) hr@bocoup.com if you would like to
notify the full leadership team of Boaz Sender, Rick Waldron, and Sheila
Moussavi. Any further communication will be determined with your consent. If
another individual asks you to stop engaging in some behavior in the course of
your work with Bocoup, you should comply immediately, and are encouraged to
contact a member of the Bocoup leadership team for further guidance.

Bocoup prioritizes marginalized people’s safety over the comfort of individuals
in positions of privilege. Bocoup reserves the right not to act on complaints
regarding “reverse-isms”, reasonable communication of boundaries, complaints
about tone premised on stereotypes, or criticism of racist, sexist, classist or
otherwise oppressive behavior.

## Thank you and Credits

This code of conduct is influenced by the [Processing
Day](https://day.processing.org/) Code of Conduct, [JSConf Code of
Conduct](http://jsconf.com/codeofconduct.html), Citizen Code of Conduct,
[NodeConf Photography Policy](https://github.com/nodeconf/website/issues/7),
and [Open Source Bridge Recording
Policy](http://opensourcebridge.org/about/recording-policy). We derived our
definition of consent from the [Building Consentful Tech
Zine](https://www.andalsotoo.net/wp-content/uploads/2018/10/Building-Consentful-Tech-Zine-SPREADS.pdf),
which was inspired by Planned Parenthood’s consent model.
